Here's your vitamins.
- What'd you get for supper?
- Uh... Soup.
You always get soup.
- Madam Mayor. Hey.
- Hey. Tony.
- What's tonight?
- Uh. mushroom.
- Mushroom? Do I like mushroom?
- Who doesn't like mushrooms?
I'll be back for the tray later. ma'am.
Okay. Thank you. Tony.
I know you're tired of
hearing me say this.
- but you know I'm going to.
- No. I know. Go.
Remember. the Silo is at peace
- because of you.
- Because of me. Mm-hmm.
Because you came back.
- Yeah.
- See you in the morning.
Bye.
Good night.
There you are.
How'd you sleep?
- Um. fine.
- Yeah?
- Yeah.
- Good.
Um. we need to go over some of the details
for the Council meeting tomorrow.
- Okay. Mm-hmm.
- Very exciting.
But we can do that
after your weekly in the cafeteria.
Mm-hmm.
I know you don't like these appearances.
but the people need to see you.
Yeah. The people need to see me.
Madam Mayor! Mayor Nichols!
There she is! Juliette!
Don't worry about them. You're good.
Ladies. I have something
that might interest you.
Can I see it?
You mean can you touch it?
No.
How much?
I was thinking
more along the lines of a trade.
- What is that?
- A toy.
We think it belonged either to her
or her brother.
I know someone who got it
from her father's place.
I wanna go.
- I wanna go.
- Okay. Okay.
Doors opening.
Step back to allow customers to exit.
When boarding.
please move to the center of the car.
Step back. Doors closing.
Hello?
Is that Mr. Jones?
- Yes?
- This is. uh. Congressman Daniel Keene.
How are you today?
I'll tell you what. Congressman.
You put me on your "do not call" list.
and you got my vote next go-round.
You call again.
I will vote for whoever the fuck
they run against you.
You got it.
Hi.
You do what I said?
What'd you say?
I said if you didn't do what I said.
I'd punch you in the throat.
Well. we certainly don't want that.
Yeah. I took two trains.
two cabs. circled back...
Got you a sweet tea.
- Lots of ice.
- Yeah. they call it iced tea here.
Well. I'm not from here. Neither are you.
What's going on. Charles?
You're off post. but you're not on leave.
Shouldn't you be in uniform?
Shouldn't you be on a phone
sucking dick for money?
Wow.
You've been in the Navy too long.
If Mom and Dad were alive right now...
They'd be clawing frantically...
...to get out of their coffins.
Why'd you think it was a date?
- What? Huh?
- That reporter.
Helen Drew.
- How do you...
- She said you gave her a Pez.
- I thought it was funny.
- Uh-huh. was it?
She also said you managed to work
New Orleans into the conversation.
Smooth.
She was dismissive of the Corps.
I thought I'd set her straight.
New Orleans was a big deal.
I was a big part of it.
We did things no one
had thought of before...
Oh. that's right. I forgot.
You invented drills.
How do you know what we said?
She's working on a story.
I couldn't help her.
I said she should talk to you.
Told her you might not
be completely useless.
If you got on Thurman's Iran Committee.
Um...
Everyone wants on that.
- Well. doesn't she owe you?
- For what?
You said good things about her.
I was running for congress.
She's a senator.
We both represent the good people
of the Peach State.
Of course I said good things about her.
But I'd be surprised
if she even knows my name.
Why wouldn't she?
Well. we have this thing in America.
It's called the party system.
We're not in the same one.
Look. you should really try
and get on that committee.
What's going on?
Have you been assigned
to whatever we got planned?
Even if I was.
I couldn't tell you. civilian swine.
I was in the Army.
You were an engineer.
And now I'm in congress.
I think I'm allowed to know
if my little sister is gonna bomb Iran.
Gotta go.
I did the whole switching cabs
and trains thing for two minutes with you?
Well. I'm sorry. I couldn't take a chance
- talking on the phone.
- Tell me what the hell is going on.
I am telling you.
Get on that committee.
and tell the reporter what you can.
You forgot something.
After all I've done. sacrificed.
to find out it never really mattered.
Maybe not.
What do you mean?
- Hey.
- Hi.
- What happened?
- I. uh...
I had a... a dream.
- I-I-I don't know. Yeah. I-I. uh...
- A dream?
I'm outside the air lock...
...um.
with Bernard and we're...
We're outside the air lock and...
- Juliette.
- I-I don't know. I. um...
- Hey.
- No. There's something...
There's something I have to do.
- I have to do something.
- What do you have to do?
I don't know. I have to... I can't. I...
I don't know. I don't know.
but he was right there.
Okay. stop. Stop.
Let's do the exercise.
If I could only talk to Bernard.
- That's not possible.
- I know. I know.
- Look at me.
- Okay.
Match my breathing. Slow.
In for three seconds. Hold.
And out.
Good. Good. One more time.
In for three seconds.
Keep breathing. Good.
Good. One more time.
Good. You're okay now.
Just keep breathing. keep breathing.
You were in there
for three minutes.
Three minutes in a box of fire
before the door would open
and your friends could get you out.
All oxygen was gone 30 seconds in.
Your suit.
it wasn't a regular cleaning suit.
It was insulated.
It protected you.
Bernard wasn't so lucky.
The flames melted holes in his suit.
and the poison got in.
We couldn't take a chance
with a farm burial.
The stairs were evacuated.
No one was allowed into the central shaft.
It took six porters six hours
to get him down to the incinerator.
Bernard can't help you.
Because I watched him burn.
My wife says you remember something
about him.
There's something you have to do.
No. I can't. I can't remember.
I hope you get more of your memory back.
I really do.
I particularly hope you remember why
you held my wife and son hostage
at gunpoint.
Who are you?
Who are you? Hmm?
I'm Robert Sims.
- I'm the Judge of the Silo...
- No. no. no. no. no. I know. I know.
You tell me that.
I don't know you.
I don't know anyone. right?
I look at myself in the mirror. and I
don't even know who's looking back at me.
And...
I thought. maybe...
maybe I had remembered something.
But it's gone.
And. what. you're gonna tell me
it's a dream? It's a dream?
I don't know.
Okay. and pull up that previous file.
Yeah. there.
I'm gonna need all of those removed.
Okay.
What did you tell her?
That Bernard died from the poison.
Thanks.
Well. if it isn't the hero of New Orleans.
A hero of New Orleans.
There were 500 Army engineers
on that project.
But Congressman Keene was key. right?
You came up with the idea
of replacing levees with tunnels.
and you invented some kind of drill
that didn't disturb the soil above. right?
Sounds like you read
my campaign literature.
Your campaign was well-written.
Anna is the writer in our family.
Oh. not press releases.
Legislation. I write bills.
She tidies them up.
If they start accepting them in crayon.
she won't need me.
What can I do for you today. Congressman?
Um. well. is there gonna be
retaliation against Iran?
They set off a dirty bomb
in our nation's capital.
of course there's going to be
a retaliation.
I'd like to be assigned
to the Iran Committee.
Son. there's a waiting list
for the waiting list.
I'd like to jump the line.
All right. give me your elevator pitch.
Um.
my sister Charlotte Keene
is a Naval aviator attached to the Nimitz.
Any retaliatory mission
is gonna be carrier-based.
The Nimitz is fresh off a refurb.
Charlotte flies an F-35.
Her squadron's flown
several missions in theater.
That's a good pitch.
I'll try to get you on.
Your last campaign slogan was. uh. Yoda.
"Don't try. Do."
You might wanna dial it down
a little bit. Congressman.
And I would. except. you know.
Charlotte's my only family.
and I'd just love to know
what we're doing and why.
And I will see what I can do.
Anna.
I blew it. didn't I?
Oh. well. she didn't throw anything.
so not too bad.
Thanks for saving New Orleans.
His sister.
- What is her name?
- Charlotte Keene.
She flies an F-35 off the Nimitz.
We're here today
in the Mids cafeteria
because of one man.
Bernard Holland.
I worked with Bernard for ten years.
And all that time. I never knew his mind.
I knew the position and authority
he claimed weren't in the Pact.
But Bernard assured me it was tradition
and had been since the beginning.
My predecessors had gone along with it.
and so did I.
So did my wife. Camille.
So did we all.
But when rebellion came.
we debated long and hard. my wife and I.
And finally we felt.
as so many of us did.
- that it was time for change.
- Yeah.
- For transparency.
- Right!
For truth.
But truth does not come
without costs.
These last three months
have been transformative
in so many ways.
Sheriff Paul Billings is rewriting
portions of the Pact that need revising.
Most of the cameras Bernard installed
throughout the Silo have been removed.
leaving only the ones necessary
for public safety and security.
And most important of all.
there is now this council.
composed of level reps
and department heads.
Change has happened. Change has happened.
And now.
it is my privilege to introduce
the only person sent out to clean
ever to return.
And the only person to be sworn in
while lying in a hospital bed.
Our mayor. Juliette Nichols.
Thank you.
Um.
I. uh. now declare the Silo's
first Council meeting. um. open.
- Yeah?
- Thanks.
Congressman. I wasn't sure I'd catch you.
Hey. Um. did I get on the Iran Committee?
The senator had me contact
an old friend at JSOC.
I asked him to track your sister.
You were right. She is slated to fly
in the Iran operation.
Um. when?
Tonight.
Coming up on the McCain.
I have visual at 9:00.
Okay. folks. Let's climb to 50.000.
Seventy-five klicks till target.
then zoom and boom back to Uncle Chester.
Raider Two. copy.
- Three. copy.
- Four. copy.
Y'all seeing this cloud up ahead?
What the fuck's a cloud doing
at 50.000 feet?
Look at the Tomahawks.
What the fuck?
We're 500 klicks from target.
Raider Four. I've got something
weird on my instrument panel.
Raider One. Looks like oil.
Raider Three.
Yeah. I've got it too.
What is it?
Raider One. I'm armed!
I-I can't...
Fuck!
Mayday. Mayday. Mayday!
Drone controls are going down!
Here.
Daniel?
That was my friend from JSOC.
Your sister's squadron
wasn't hitting any of the targets
they're talking about on TV.
They were on a mission
to a facility in the mountains.
Charlotte's plane went down.
but a rescue team out of Turkmenistan
picked her up.
She's alive.
She's alive?
Harwood. Head of Mines.
I don't know what you want me...
Just give us a status report. Ed.
We're miners.
We're mining.
There was an accident yesterday?
I don't know how much
of an accident it was. but yeah.
There was a...
There was a collapse
in the B-92 spur off subshaft David.
Seven were trapped. We got 'em out.
Am I done?
Sorry. You don't know
how much of an accident it was?
Look. everyone says it's a mystery
how old the Silo is.
Not to us.
The number of shafts and tunnels we got.
it's been here at least 300 years.
Three hundred years of shafts
and tunnels going this way and that.
up and down. sideways. but never out.
At least not more than 200 feet.
Why?
Because it's in the Pact.
Which means you got 300 years of tunnels
and shafts doubling back on each other.
Add to that the effects of the bomb
set off by the rebels.
I'm not taking sides.
What's done is done.
I'm just stating a fact.
So it's not an accident
the tunnel collapsed.
It's a fucking miracle
it doesn't happen every week.
Why. um...
Why does the Pact limit
how far out they can go?
Yeah. fuck knows.
Okay.
Okay. so maybe that's something
that we can look into.
- We will do that.
- Yeah?
My name is Orla Kent.
and I am shadow to the head of Supply.
Carla McLain asked me
to come represent her here today...
How...
How old are you?
Twenty-six.
Twenty-six?
I've got boots older than that.
So do I. Mr. Harwood.
They're my Aunt Doreen's boots.
She worked Supply-side 40 years.
as did my mother and father.
I grew up in the bays.
Started pulling boxes
on the high-line at ten.
Yeah. yeah.
All I'm saying is.
if I had to come here. so should Carla.
Carla McLain understands
how important today is.
but she also remains set on retiring.
And she wanted me here
as I'll be the one giving these reports
in the future.
Thank you. That's great.
So now we've cleared that up. your report.
Thank you.
Because of production shutdowns
during the rebellion.
there were many shortages right after.
But we worked with the suppliers.
released a prudent amount
from reserves and Critical Supply.
and citizens reduced their usage.
We are now back
to pre-rebellion levels in all sectors.
Bottom line. we are good in Supply.
You wanted the truth.
They're good in Supply.
Mr. Knox.
Ed. I-I think I speak
for everyone here when I say.
what the hell are you complaining about?
I came up from 144.
I had to be hauled up the gap
by a couple of skinny bastards
I was sure were gonna drop my ass.
Anyway.
the generator is humming along
just fine thanks to you. Juliette...
uh. Madam Mayor.
and your fix from before.
The only other thing to report has to do
with what we call the digger void.
When word of it got out.
people...
...mostly young idiots.
came down for a look-see
and quite a few had to be rescued.
Martha Walker has taken it upon herself
to seal off the access.
Everything we could use from there was...
was taken out a long time ago.
Anyway. that's all I got.
Thank you.
Sheriff?
Um. Sheriff Paul Billings.
Not much to report.
I've been working on the Pact.
Crime is down.
I think that's it.
Any progress on our two fugitives?
Uh. there've been sightings of Kennedy.
but when we get there. he's gone.
if he was there at all.
Nothing on Lukas Kyle.
We think he may have died in the rebellion
and his body was misidentified.
We only found Rick Amundsen two weeks ago.
What about the Outsiders?
They do their stunts.
and by the time we get there.
they've disappeared.
Any idea who they are?
Other than followers of Kennedy? No.
They wear masks.
Madam Mayor.
It's okay. Jerry.
Mr. Knox.
I just wanted to ask about your memory.
Anything coming back?
- Getting better every day.
- Yeah.
So nothing more
about what it was like outside?
No. just what we've seen. Mmm.
Do you remember me? Do...
- Do you know who I am?
- Yeah. of course she does.
- You're head of Mechanical. right?
- That's right.
Your daughter still down in Supply?
Not for long.
Hoping she comes back up soon.
She's at home in the mines.
She doesn't much like working
for a teenager.
Your daughter was the same age I am.
Mr. Harwood. when she became shadow
to the head of Supply.
Oh. I know that.
It's just...
I know what Glenda's capable of.
What is she capable of. Mr. Harwood?
Excuse me. what?
Just a question.
I got another.
When was the last time you swung a pick
or shoveled ore?
See. I still haul crates.
Ow. You're hurting me.
Please don't tell me we have a problem
first day of the Council.
Not at all.
What was that about?
I guess some people
just don't like change.
Great progress. right?
Yeah.
Yeah. You've made amazing progress.
Thank you.
So. you'll notice
several of the work-arounds
violate certain rules in the Pact.
Um. but those violations
were deemed necessary
due to present circumstances.
And several of those rules
are being considered
for possible permanent changes.
Isn't that right. Sheriff?
Yep.
- Should we go up?
- Yeah.
Shirley is in charge of reconstruction.
You remember Shirley. right?
Yeah. go ahead.
Yeah. uh...
You were at my first meet and greet
in the cafeteria. right?
That's right.
Your first day out of hospital.
Uh. well. I'm. uh...
I'm sorry it's taken me this long to...
to get down here
and see what you've been doing.
So. I just want to say thank you
for all the hard work.
Better get back to it.
Okay. Of course.
Oh. Is that where my dad died?
I... I heard that his sacrifice
guaranteed the success of the rebellion?
There wasn't supposed to be any sacrifice.
We made sure the stairs were empty.
but the. uh...
the device was supposed to go off
on a timer.
but we lost the timer.
And then...
...Dr. Pete. he insisted on staying.
Sorry. What's-What's your name?
I-I'm Hank. ma'am.
Deputy Hank Murphy.
Deputy Hank. I...
I really don't blame anyone.
- Except for Bernard. of course.
- Yeah. Of course. Bernard.
Well. Lunch is waiting.
Oh. Okay.
Wait. Wait. stop!
Okay.
Okay. okay.
I don't know how you can be like that.
Be like what?
Like. "Yes. Madam." "No. Madam."
It's bullshit!
Shirl. I don't know what I'm meant to do.
Rub it in her face
that she doesn't remember us?
Her name is Jules.
She's a Mechanical. She doesn't...
She... She wouldn't be caught dead
in a dress for fuck's sake.
Camille says
it's gonna take some more time.
We can't force it.
She's been saying that
for three months now.
She's not coming back.
Uh. she's on her way over now.
- What?
- She's coming this way.
Shirley. can I. um.
just talk to you for a moment?
- Yeah?
- Sure.
Um...
Um. so Camille told me
that we used to be friends.
We were... we were good...
good friends. right?
- That's one way of putting it.
- Okay.
Well. um.
look. I don't... I don't know
who to talk to right now.
and I... I just need...
I had... I had a memory. right?
I don't know if it was a dream. and I'm...
I'm outside the air lock
with Bernard. right?
And I get this. like.
overwhelming feeling.
like there's something I have to do.
and I don't know what.
but I-I know Bernard.
He... He would've known what it was.
and. um. I think...
I just...
I think what I'm trying to ask you is.
did I ever mention...
Did I say anything to you?
- Do you know what I'm talking about?
- Um. no.
Is she. uh... Is she looking at me?
No. she's walking away.
- All good?
- Yeah.
Madam Mayor.
- Excuse us.
- Sorry.
- Orla? Yeah.
- Yes. um. there's a problem.
and I was told I could only talk about it
with two people.
The head of Supply and. well. you. ma'am.
Okay.
Um...
- Of course. Yeah.
- Yeah.
Critical Supply.
Um. all the things that were loaded
in the Silo when it was built...
Light bulbs. computers. all that...
Well. some things.
a lot of things have gone missing.
Maybe stolen.
- Really?
- Yeah.
But I think it might
be going through construction.
- Madam Mayor.
- Yeah?
We have a situation.
Security says the attackers
were wearing masks and hoods.
Outsiders.
What were they doing in IT?
They took a helmet from the suit room.
Why? Why would they take a helmet?
Oh. shit.
The display is a lie.
- Juliette?
- Yeah.
Yeah. Good.
- Find Kennedy.
- We'll keep looking.
Maybe if you grab one of his followers.
Good idea.
- Hey.
Uh. your sister was shipped out
of Landstuhl 12 hours ago.
Yeah. yeah. yeah. She's gonna land
at Andrews in ten minutes.
I'm meeting her at Walter Reed.
- She's not going to Walter Reed.
- What?
I'm sure you heard that her body is fine.
but she has a TBI. A traumatic...
Traumatic brain injury.
Yeah. I know. but...
Okay. so my-my mother
has pulled some strings.
She's being sent
to the Heidi Stensen Clinic in Fairfax.
This is the best place for TBI
in the country.
In the world.
The name should tell you why.
- Oh. Stensen.
- Right.
Heidi Stensen was his mother.
She had Alzheimer's.
He has sunk a lot into this facility.
Hi. Here for Charlotte Keene.
Well. you've looked better.
Who are you?
We're still trying to track the Outsiders.
Unfortunately. they're smart.
When they split up.
they go to places there are no cameras.
We do have this.
Wait. Wait. stop!
Might've broken her wrist.
Looking for a woman
with a bandaged right arm.
Got it.
What is it?
How did I get in?
I don't understand. What... What are you...
How did I get through the doors?
How did I get in?
- Well. Bernard opened them. He was...
- No. Yeah. No. no. no.
You've said that. but I...
I couldn't have known
that he was gonna do that.
So. how...
I would've had a plan. right? So. I...
Uh...
I would've had something. right?
I had something.
I had something in my hand.
I had a crowbar.
And that's what I used to try
to open the doors.
Juliette.
Hey.
Hey. look at me. Juliette.
- I'm all right.
- Juliette. listen.
I went...
I went into a different place.
Yes. You did. We know this.
I think I went...
I think I went into another silo.
Okay.
I think it's time you watched it again.
So. Bernard put cameras...
In the cleaning helmets.
but he didn't show anyone. I know.
- You told me many times.
- Right.
- Okay.
- Yeah.
You remember now?
You went outside.
You made your way to that refuge hut.
- You stayed in there...
- I stayed in there
until I was strong enough to come back.
There was a suit in there and a helmet.
and the suit was insulated
to resist flames.
Thank the Founders.
What was that?
IT said we're low on vitamin D.
Please ship two barrels of D+
to Water Filtration.
- How much do they weigh?
- Stupid amount.
Why they have three teams. switching off.
- They use sleds?
- They'd have to.
That means they can only go at night.
- They say how long it'd take?
- Three days.
I have nothing to complain about.
Yet. somehow you will.
How was the Council?
It was fine. Though I had a couple run-ins
with Harwood.
What a dick.
Clearly not happy with me
taking his daughter's job.
And he knows I'm investigating her.
She must've told him.
You know. even with everything you have
on your plate. you seem...
I don't know.
You seem lighter than you have in weeks.
I think it was seeing the mayor.
Something about her just made me feel
like it's gonna be okay.
I'm gonna go
take a look around construction.
I saw something at the gap.
Gave me an idea of how
she might be moving stuff.
How?
I'll tell you later if I'm right.
Hey.
How was she then?
She seemed less agitated.
I think she's fully accepted
the memory of the refuge hut as real.
You're still concerned.
She's had no memories
for three months.
other than those you've given her.
And now this.
The Order says the memory
suppression drugs aren't perfect.
- and that some memories will return...
- We're outside The Order now.
This isn't her recalling
a dislike for mushrooms.
This is her being convinced
there's something she has to do
that she just can't remember.
That worries me.
Double the dosage.
Your vitamins.
The first meeting of the Silo Council.
How was that?
Um. I've got nothing to compare it to. so...
- Well. I hope you sleep better tonight.
- Thanks.
See you in the morning.
Bye.
- Hi.
- Hey.
Hey. Tony.
- Special chowder.
- Okay.
I hear good things.
You say that every night.
- I'll wait outside.
- Yeah?
If you don't like it.
I'll get you the chicken noodle.
All right. Thanks.
Ugh.
Oh.
- That bad?
- Um... Wasn't great.
- I'll get the chicken noodle.
- No. I'm good.
- I'm not hungry.
- Why's the bowl upside d...
Uh. that's just to tell them
I didn't like it.
- Loud and clear. ma'am.
- Okay. Bye. Tony.
Bye.